content/index.md, before:

---
title: Home
hideTitle: true
disableFancyImage: true
---

::IndexHeader
::

## 🦸🏻‍♂️ About Me

I am a third-year Computer Science Ph.D. candidate at [Shanghai Jiao Tong University](https://en.sjtu.edu.cn/) and a member of [Machine Intelligence and Vision Group (MVIG)](https://www.mvig.org/) under the supervision of [Prof. Cewu Lu](https://www.mvig.org/).

I receive my bachelor degree from Shanghai Jiao Tong Universiy in 2021. My research interests lie in Robotics and 3D Vision. Previously, I have been working on deformable object perception and manipulation. Now I am particularly interested in tactile sensing and bimanual manipulation.


In the past, I have interned at [Microsoft Research Asia](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/lab/microsoft-research-asia/) under the supervsion of [Han Hu](https://ancientmooner.github.io/) and [Yue Cao](http://yue-cao.me/). In my spare time, I enjoy watching movies and playing with robots🤖.


## 📰 News

::ShortNews
::

[More news >>>](/news/)

## 🏫 Experiences

::ExperienceRow{icon=sjtu.png}
**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**\
Ph.D. Student / Master Student.\
Research assistant in [Machine Intelligence and Vision Group (MVIG)](https://www.mvig.org/), advised by [Prof. Cewu Lu](https://www.mvig.org/)\
Sep. 2021 - Present
::

::ExperienceRow{icon=microsoft.png}
**Microsoft Research Asia**\
Research Intern, advised by [Han Hu](https://ancientmooner.github.io/) and [Yue Cao](http://yue-cao.me/).\
Jul. 2019 - Mar. 2020
::

::ExperienceRow{icon=sjtu.png}
**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**\
Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science. \
Sep 2016 - Jun. 2021
::


## 📄 Selected Publications
::PublicationRow
---
title: "DeformPAM: Data-Efficient Learning for
Long-horizon Deformable Object Manipulation via
Preference-based Action Alignment"
thumbnail: deform-pam.gif
type: conference
authors:
    - Wendi Chen*
    - Han Xue*
    - Fangyuan Zhou
    - Yuan Fang
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: arXiv
    year: 2024
    name: "Under Review"
artifactLinks:
    Website: https://deform-pam.robotflow.ai/
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11584
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/DeformPAM
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "UniFolding: Towards Sample-efficient, Scalable, and Generalizable Robotic Garment Folding"
thumbnail: unifolding.gif
type: conference
authors:
    - Han Xue*
    - Yutong Li*
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Huanyu Li
    - Dongzhe Zheng
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: CoRL
    year: 2023
    name: "7th Annual Conference on Robot Learning."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openreview.net/pdf?id=ANJuNDFdvP
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01267
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/UniFolding
    Website: https://unifolding.robotflow.ai/
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "ClothPose: A Real-world Benchmark for Visual Analysis of Garment Pose via An Indirect Recording Solution"
thumbnail: clothpose.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Wenqiang Xu*
    - Wenxin Du*
    - Han Xue
    - Yutong Li
    - Ruolin Ye
    - Yan-Feng Wang
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: ICCV
    year: 2023
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision"
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2023/papers/Xu_ClothPose_A_Real-world_Benchmark_for_Visual_Analysis_of_Garment_Pose_ICCV_2023_paper.pdf
---
<span class="text-red-600 font-bold">🔥 Oral Presentation.</span>
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "GarmentTracking: Category-Level Garment Pose Tracking"
thumbnail: garment-tracking.gif
type: conference
authors:
    - Han Xue
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Jieyi Zhang
    - Tutian Tang
    - Yutong Li
    - Wenxin Du
    - Ruolin Ye
    - Cewu Lu
venue:
    acronym: CVPR
    year: 2023
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Xue_GarmentTracking_Category-Level_Garment_Pose_Tracking_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13913.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/GarmentTracking
    Website: https://garment-tracking.robotflow.ai/
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Visual-Tactile Sensing for In-Hand Object Reconstruction"
thumbnail: vtaco.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Wenqiang Xu*
    - Zhenjun Yu*
    - Han Xue
    - Ruolin Ye
    - Siqiong Yao
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: CVPR
    year: 2023
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Xu_Visual-Tactile_Sensing_for_In-Hand_Object_Reconstruction_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14498.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/jeffsonyu/VTacO
    Website: https://sites.google.com/view/vtaco/
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Demonstrating RFUniverse: A Multiphysics Simulation Platform for Embodied AI"
thumbnail: rfuniverse.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Haoyuan Fu*
    - Wenqiang Xu*
    - Ruolin Ye*
    - Han Xue
    - Zhenjun Yu
    - Tutian Tang
    - Yutong Li
    - Wenxin Du
    - Jieyi Zhang
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: RSS
    year: 2023
    name: "Robotics: Science and Systems."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss19/p087.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/mvig-robotflow/pyrfuniverse
    Website: https://sites.google.com/view/rfuniverse
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Toward Real-World Category-Level Articulation Pose Estimation"
thumbnail: articulation_real.png
type: journal
authors:
    - Liu Liu*
    - Han Xue*
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Haoyuan Fu
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: TIP
    year: 2022
    name: "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing."
artifactLinks:
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.03260
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "OMAD: Object Model with Articulated Deformations for Pose Estimation and Retrieval"
thumbnail: omad.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Han Xue* 
    - Liu Liu*
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Haoyuan Fu
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: BMVC
    year: 2021
    name: "The 32nd British Machine Vision Conference."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://www.bmvc2021-virtualconference.com/assets/papers/0544.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.07334.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/OMAD
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Dense RepPoints: Representing Visual Objects with Dense Point Sets"
thumbnail: dense_reppoints.jpg
type: conference
authors:
    - Ze Yang*
    - Yinghao Xu*
    - Han Xue*
    - Zheng Zhang
    - Raquel Urtasun
    - Liwei Wang
    - Stephen Lin
    - Han Hu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: ECCV
    year: 2020
    name: "The European Conference on Computer Vision."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://www.ecva.net/papers/eccv_2020/papers_ECCV/papers/123660222.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.11473.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/justimyhxu/Dense-RepPoints
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Lidar-video driving dataset: Learning driving policies effectively"
thumbnail: dbnet.jpg
type: conference
authors:
    - Yiping Chen*
    - Jingkang Wang*
    - Jonathan Li
    - Cewu Lu
    - Zhipeng Luo
    - Han Xue
    - Cheng Wang (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: CVPR
    year: 2018
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Chen_LiDAR-Video_Driving_Dataset_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/driving-behavior/DBNet
    Website: http://www.dbehavior.net/
hideBottomBorder: true
---
::

[Full publication list >>>](/publication/)

## 🏆 Awards

- Outstanding Graduates in Shanghai (Top 3%) in 2021.
- Rongchang Technology Innovation Scholarship (Top 10 students in SJTU) in 2020.
- SenseTime Scholarship (Top 21 undergraduates in China) in 2020.
- National Scholarship (Top 3 students in CS Department).
  -  National Scholarship in 2019
  -  National Scholarship in 2018
  -  National Scholarship in 2017
- Academic Excellence Scholarship (Class A) of SJTU (Top 1% in SJTU) in 2018.
- Meritorious Winner Prize of Mathematical Contest in Modeling in 2018.
- 1st Prize in China Undergraduate Mathematical Contest in Modeling (Shanghai Division) in 2017.


## 📧 Find Me

::contact-item
---
icon: email
url: mailto:xiaoxiaoxh@sjtu.edu.cn
---
Email
::

::contact-item
---
icon: github
url: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh
---
GitHub
::

::contact-item
---
icon: twitter
url: https://twitter.com/HanXue012
---
Twitter
::

Commit message:

update talk info and news

content/index.md, after:

---
title: Home
hideTitle: true
disableFancyImage: true
---

::IndexHeader
::

## 🦸🏻‍♂️ About Me

I am a third-year Computer Science Ph.D. candidate at [Shanghai Jiao Tong University](https://en.sjtu.edu.cn/) and a member of [Machine Intelligence and Vision Group (MVIG)](https://www.mvig.org/) under the supervision of [Prof. Cewu Lu](https://www.mvig.org/).

I receive my bachelor degree from Shanghai Jiao Tong Universiy in 2021. My research interests lie in Robotics and 3D Vision. Previously, I have been working on deformable object perception and manipulation. Now I am particularly interested in tactile sensing and bimanual manipulation.


In the past, I have interned at [Microsoft Research Asia](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/lab/microsoft-research-asia/) under the supervsion of [Han Hu](https://ancientmooner.github.io/) and [Yue Cao](http://yue-cao.me/). In my spare time, I enjoy watching movies and playing with robots🤖.


## 📰 News

::ShortNews
::

[More news >>>](/news/)

## 🏫 Experiences

::ExperienceRow{icon=sjtu.png}
**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**\
Ph.D. Student / Master Student.\
Research assistant in [Machine Intelligence and Vision Group (MVIG)](https://www.mvig.org/), advised by [Prof. Cewu Lu](https://www.mvig.org/)\
Sep. 2021 - Present
::

::ExperienceRow{icon=microsoft.png}
**Microsoft Research Asia**\
Research Intern, advised by [Han Hu](https://ancientmooner.github.io/) and [Yue Cao](http://yue-cao.me/).\
Jul. 2019 - Mar. 2020
::

::ExperienceRow{icon=sjtu.png}
**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**\
Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science. \
Sep 2016 - Jun. 2021
::


## 📄 Selected Publications
::PublicationRow
---
title: "DeformPAM: Data-Efficient Learning for
Long-horizon Deformable Object Manipulation via
Preference-based Action Alignment"
thumbnail: deform-pam.gif
type: conference
authors:
    - Wendi Chen*
    - Han Xue*
    - Fangyuan Zhou
    - Yuan Fang
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: arXiv
    year: 2024
    name: "Under Review"
artifactLinks:
    Website: https://deform-pam.robotflow.ai/
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11584
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/DeformPAM
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "UniFolding: Towards Sample-efficient, Scalable, and Generalizable Robotic Garment Folding"
thumbnail: unifolding.gif
type: conference
authors:
    - Han Xue*
    - Yutong Li*
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Huanyu Li
    - Dongzhe Zheng
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: CoRL
    year: 2023
    name: "7th Annual Conference on Robot Learning."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openreview.net/pdf?id=ANJuNDFdvP
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01267
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/UniFolding
    Website: https://unifolding.robotflow.ai/
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "ClothPose: A Real-world Benchmark for Visual Analysis of Garment Pose via An Indirect Recording Solution"
thumbnail: clothpose.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Wenqiang Xu*
    - Wenxin Du*
    - Han Xue
    - Yutong Li
    - Ruolin Ye
    - Yan-Feng Wang
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: ICCV
    year: 2023
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision"
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2023/papers/Xu_ClothPose_A_Real-world_Benchmark_for_Visual_Analysis_of_Garment_Pose_ICCV_2023_paper.pdf
---
<span class="text-red-600 font-bold">🔥 Oral Presentation.</span>
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "GarmentTracking: Category-Level Garment Pose Tracking"
thumbnail: garment-tracking.gif
type: conference
authors:
    - Han Xue
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Jieyi Zhang
    - Tutian Tang
    - Yutong Li
    - Wenxin Du
    - Ruolin Ye
    - Cewu Lu
venue:
    acronym: CVPR
    year: 2023
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Xue_GarmentTracking_Category-Level_Garment_Pose_Tracking_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13913.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/GarmentTracking
    Website: https://garment-tracking.robotflow.ai/
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Visual-Tactile Sensing for In-Hand Object Reconstruction"
thumbnail: vtaco.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Wenqiang Xu*
    - Zhenjun Yu*
    - Han Xue
    - Ruolin Ye
    - Siqiong Yao
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: CVPR
    year: 2023
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Xu_Visual-Tactile_Sensing_for_In-Hand_Object_Reconstruction_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14498.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/jeffsonyu/VTacO
    Website: https://sites.google.com/view/vtaco/
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Demonstrating RFUniverse: A Multiphysics Simulation Platform for Embodied AI"
thumbnail: rfuniverse.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Haoyuan Fu*
    - Wenqiang Xu*
    - Ruolin Ye*
    - Han Xue
    - Zhenjun Yu
    - Tutian Tang
    - Yutong Li
    - Wenxin Du
    - Jieyi Zhang
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: RSS
    year: 2023
    name: "Robotics: Science and Systems."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss19/p087.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/mvig-robotflow/pyrfuniverse
    Website: https://sites.google.com/view/rfuniverse
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Toward Real-World Category-Level Articulation Pose Estimation"
thumbnail: articulation_real.png
type: journal
authors:
    - Liu Liu*
    - Han Xue*
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Haoyuan Fu
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: TIP
    year: 2022
    name: "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing."
artifactLinks:
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.03260
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "OMAD: Object Model with Articulated Deformations for Pose Estimation and Retrieval"
thumbnail: omad.png
type: conference
authors:
    - Han Xue* 
    - Liu Liu*
    - Wenqiang Xu
    - Haoyuan Fu
    - Cewu Lu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: BMVC
    year: 2021
    name: "The 32nd British Machine Vision Conference."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://www.bmvc2021-virtualconference.com/assets/papers/0544.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.07334.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh/OMAD
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Dense RepPoints: Representing Visual Objects with Dense Point Sets"
thumbnail: dense_reppoints.jpg
type: conference
authors:
    - Ze Yang*
    - Yinghao Xu*
    - Han Xue*
    - Zheng Zhang
    - Raquel Urtasun
    - Liwei Wang
    - Stephen Lin
    - Han Hu (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: ECCV
    year: 2020
    name: "The European Conference on Computer Vision."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: https://www.ecva.net/papers/eccv_2020/papers_ECCV/papers/123660222.pdf
    arXiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.11473.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/justimyhxu/Dense-RepPoints
---
::

::PublicationRow
---
title: "Lidar-video driving dataset: Learning driving policies effectively"
thumbnail: dbnet.jpg
type: conference
authors:
    - Yiping Chen*
    - Jingkang Wang*
    - Jonathan Li
    - Cewu Lu
    - Zhipeng Luo
    - Han Xue
    - Cheng Wang (*Equal contribution)
venue:
    acronym: CVPR
    year: 2018
    name: "Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition."
artifactLinks:
    Proceeding: http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Chen_LiDAR-Video_Driving_Dataset_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf
    Code: https://github.com/driving-behavior/DBNet
    Website: http://www.dbehavior.net/
hideBottomBorder: true
---
::

[Full publication list >>>](/publication/)

## ✨ Talks
- \[Oct. 2024\] Invited talk @ [TEA lab](http://hxu.rocks/index.html) in Tsinghua University, IIIS on "Efficient Learning for Long-horizon Deformable Object Manipulation" 

## 🏆 Awards

- Outstanding Graduates in Shanghai (Top 3%) in 2021.
- Rongchang Technology Innovation Scholarship (Top 10 students in SJTU) in 2020.
- SenseTime Scholarship (Top 21 undergraduates in China) in 2020.
- National Scholarship (Top 3 students in CS Department) in 2017, 2018 and 2019 (three consecutive years).
- Academic Excellence Scholarship (Class A) of SJTU (Top 1% in SJTU) in 2018.
- Meritorious Winner Prize of Mathematical Contest in Modeling in 2018.
- 1st Prize in China Undergraduate Mathematical Contest in Modeling (Shanghai Division) in 2017.


## 📧 Find Me

::contact-item
---
icon: email
url: mailto:xiaoxiaoxh@sjtu.edu.cn
---
Email
::

::contact-item
---
icon: github
url: https://github.com/xiaoxiaoxh
---
GitHub
::

::contact-item
---
icon: twitter
url: https://twitter.com/HanXue012
---
Twitter
::
